BACKEND

What is backend?
you have two entities named fronted (the ui and beauty of the site) , Backend(engine all brain)

User interacts with fronted and fronted interacts with backend. 

Lets say u have fb messenger app and you have a link in it.

What happens when you click it?
Here a http request goes(hyper text transfer protocol).
So we can use http in client server interaction
its a standard way of contacting between client and server on internet.

Computer networking explains http 

when you click on the link the os decides what to do?
the link will be given to on your default browser. 
But chrome doesnt know what this link is. It needs an IP address.
(domain name resolution)  Ip address of server on which the site is hosted

server ka http pta hai port number pta hai

We can connection establish / TCP connection /Encryption / Handshake
then you have a get request 

In http request we have major 4 types of request:
-get (retrieves/fetches data)
-put (update data)
-post (submitting new data)
-delete (removing data)

Creating our own server using express (framework used to create server side application)

create a folder :
run npm init -y in that folder

middleware


MongoDb: no sql dbms

Folder structure:
index.js : has all logics

routes(folder): all routes


local host can also be written as :127.0.0.1

Class 3
blog site backend

Class 4

how internet works?
www.google.com 

client server model : client always needs anything(requests) , server sends response

client sends requests to server which in turn sends data as response
user wrote url : which is converted to address done by domain name resolution (DNR) user ki machine pe data aagya
what is express?
framework v/s libraries

tools in backed:
express 
MongoDb
mongoose

Create application
1)create folder
2)open terminal and cd to the folder
3)npm init (--y if you dont want to answer the ques) 
4)create app/index.js
5)npm i express

Routes : explain the type of requests.
get , post , put etc 

Mounting
addition of sub application

MVC

